Dynamic Aspects Workshop (DAW05)

http://aosd.net/2005/workshops/daw/index.html

Call for Papers
===============

Join points are the locus of aspect and functional code
interaction. Traditional aspect systems define join points in terms of
the static structure of programs, such as syntactic method calls,
method entry and field access.

Research interests of the AOSD community have been extended beyond
static aspects. In some situations, it is desirable to invoke or
change aspect behavior based on the dynamics of program
execution. Such situations include changing behavior based on the
call-stack context, co-occurrence of predicate triggers, concurrent
thread status, or events in the underlying interpreter such as storage
reclamation or process scheduling.

This workshop will identify examples of useful dynamic aspect
behavior, suggest appropriate linguistic structures for dynamic
aspects, and discuss implementation techniques for dynamic aspects,
such as shadow compilation, dynamically changeable hook points, and
modifications required in the underlying execution environment. The
workshop organizers are particularly interested in position papers
that describe experience with dynamic aspect systems or that outline
real problems which need dynamic aspects.

Topics and Motivation
---------------------

The theme of the workshop is dynamic aspects, an emerging frontier in
the expansion of aspect technologies.

The topics of the workshop include:

* Application scenarios for and applications of dynamic aspects
* Linguistic structures for dynamic aspects
* Implementation mechanisms for dynamic aspects
* Enabling technologies and environment support for dynamic aspects
  (e.g., debuggers, IDEs)
* Models for dynamic aspects
* Validation techniques for dynamic aspects
* Achieving the effect of dynamic aspects in conventional programming
  environments
* Challenges and research directions

Format
------

We expect to run the workshop as a combination of demonstrations,
paper presentations, and working groups. The workshop's format will
correspond to a writer's workshop format, having its main focus is on
the interaction of the participants. Hence, a lot of time is planned
for discussions about the accepted papers. Based on these discussions,
typical working groups would explore issues such as developing a set
of reference problems and requirements for the implementers of dynamic
aspect systems, taxonomic organizations of the dynamic aspect space,
implementation techniques for dynamic aspect systems, and catalogs of
applications that could be improved by the existence of dynamic aspect
mechanisms. We expect the working groups to present their material to
all workshop participants.

Depending on the quality of the submitted papers, we will publish them
as a technical report and may seek a more influential vehicle for
wider dissemination of the better papers.

This workshop is a successor to last year s AOSD Dynamic Aspects
Workshop (http://aosd.net/2004/workshops/daw/) and the ECOOP 03
Workshop on Advancing the State-of-the-Art in Runtime Inspection
(ASARTI)
(http://www.st.informatik.tudarmstadt.de/pages/workshops/ASARTI03/index.html).

Submission and Invitation
-------------------------

Attendance at the workshop is by invitation. Prospective workshop
participants are requested to submit to hirschfeld@acm.org, either (1)
a full paper of up to 6,000 words, describing work on a topic germane
to dynamic aspects, or (2) a position paper of up to 2,000
words. Submissions should use the ACM format, templates for which can
be found at http://www.acm.org/sigs/pubs/proceed/template.html. We
especially welcome submissions that address multiple elements in the
topic list for example, implementations along with a more formal
discussion of their program model, or linguistic structures with
examples of their application. If quality of enough submitted full
papers merits, the workshop organizers will seek an archival
publication for those papers.

Key Dates
---------

Full and position papers due: January 16th, 2005
Invitations issued: February 3rd, 2005
Final copy of papers due: February 19th, 2005
Workshop: March, 15th, 2005

Organizing Committee
--------------------

Robert Filman
RIACS, NASA Ames
rfilman@mail.arc.nasa.gov

Michael Haupt
Darmstadt University of Technology
haupt@informatik.tu-darmstadt.de

Robert Hirschfeld
DoCoMo Euro-Labs
hirschfeld@acm.org

Program Committee
-----------------

Johan Brichau, Vrije Universiteit Brussel
Ruzanna Chitchyan, Lancaster University
Yvonne Coady, University of Victoria
Pascal Costanza, University of Bonn
Robert Filman, NASA Ames Research Center (co-organiser)
Stefan Hanenberg, University of Essen
Michael Haupt, Darmstadt University of Technology (co-organiser)
Stephan Herrmann, Technical University Berlin
Robert Hirschfeld, DoCoMo Euro-Labs (co-organiser)
Guenter Kniesel, University of Bonn
Cristina Lopes, University of California, Irvine
Katharina Mehner, Technical University Berlin
Mario Suedholt, Ecole des Mines de Nantes



